---
layout: post-no-feature
title: First Assignment Blog, 
description: "The Internet With A Human Face" and first class deiscussion response. 
categories: articles
date: 2017-09-06
---

Correlation does not equal causation, that was practically mantra of my statistics class last year. That seems to be forgotten with the use of data despite the necessity to apply statistics in order to collect and have at least a chance of properly using the data collected. The bias of data, or rather the ability to gather and/or use data with bias, as discussed in class and the article, leads to misprofiling based on limited information or information without context. Data is a tool and if used with these blatant biases and misguided trust it can be severely damaging or utterly useless because, as Lulu pointed out, it crams people into boxes and when crammed into a box you will eventually mold to it. I feel people forget that data is just a tool and not a living entity entirely perfect and unburdened by human flaws. 
 
 There is also discussion of data and capitalism. It is a driving power in advertising and online seems to be a force that allots dangerous monopolies that we are more oblivious to. I recall reading a book called <i>Proxy</i> set in the distant future where data is injected into genes. Advertisements and profiling are so aggressive that a simply suggestion that the main character is gay results in an overflow of advertisement centered on products for gay men directed at the main character. Controlling data also had so much power that it determines class and authority. In this dystopian society, the government is essentially nonexistent; power in the novel falls to data and those who control it. Ceglowski talks of the internet and data as limiting and the predictions of the book <i>Proxy</i> resonate that where data is everything and individuals are nothing.

 <i>Proxy</i> also functions around the idea of dehumanization that Lulu brought up. Names, something typically associated as being very personal, are randomly assigned from a data base with no meaning becoming a simple drop of data in an ocean of data. We are using data like a scrapbook when in fact it is very impersonal even though some of the most intimate information about you could be stored and used to calculate who exactly you are. 
 
 Ceglowski talks about a possibility of using all this data we have gathered for good, for a better world. I feel if data is seen more as a tool and less as a peek into a personal diary, where measurements are gathered selectively and acknowledged to not be all knowing and all accurate it could lead to a brighter future. In class it seemed a lot of the issues associated with such controlled and detailed data fell to the data itself, once more creating this illusion of life and power in the data, but when it comes down to it how we collect, handle, and interpret data falls to human responsibility. By nature we are greedy, flawed creatures who are bound to misuse data, but we can do just as much good with it.
